>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
it sounds like most people were able
to do pretty well with the project.
If not,
we're gonna work through it right now, and
you can kind of see how you
did in different things.
>> Brian Holt: So if you click here,
this is kind of what we were looking at.
>> Brian Holt: We'll do this title first,
and then we'll kind of move down the rows.
Does anyone have any questions
about it before we move forward?
>> Brian Holt: If you want to see this
page, I've made a little bit.ly link for
it, it's bit.ly/news-project.
Let me just make that a little bit
bigger on something so you can see it.
>> Brian Holt: So
this top link right here,
this is if you lost the link to
the current project website,
intro-web-dev, and
this is the news project.
That's just gonna take you to this, so
just some easy short links for you.
>> Brian Holt: I'm gonna open my
project in Visual Studio Code.
>> Brian Holt: So to remind you,
this is how you open something using
your browser from your file system.
You hit File >Open File,
this should work on Windows,
this should work on
every operating system.
File > Open, well, it's Cmd-O,
I also believe it's Ctrl-O for Windows.
You'll open this dialogue, and then you
just got to go find where you put it.
For me, it's on my desktop right there,
FEM, and find the index.html file.
And if you open that, you should
see whatever you have written so
far, which for me is this profound
statement from the scholar Brian.
>> Brian Holt: So
let's just talk about how you kinda break
this down into a smaller
problem that you can solve.
>> Brian Holt: So pretending that someone
gave me this, not the complete product,
we'll ignore that for now, but
pretending more that someone
gave me this image, right,
this non-interactive image.
He's like, here,
I've made this in InDesign,
I want you to turn this into HTML and
CSS, right?
This is very common, this is how you'll
interact a lot of times with designers,
here's my design,
now go make this a thing, go make it work.
So the first thing,
what I would do is, look at this.
I kinda see three kind of hard sections.
I see the title part,
The News Times at the top.
I see this top row here, and
then I see the bottom row.
And so those are kind of like the things
that I'm gonna break this problem
down into.
So the first thing I'm gonna start
with here is The News Times part.
So get rid of this, and
I'm gonna make this something like.
You can make it a div, you can make it
a section, we'll go with a section.
Like I said, there's no difference
between a div and a section, but
you're kind of just,
here's a partition, right?
Some sort of partition of your website
is a good place to use a section
instead of a div.
It has more meaning than a div,
so it doesn't actually matters.
it's not actually going to change
anything, except for documentation for
your future self.
That's how you choose what
kind of tag you're gonna use.
So we are gonna use a section,
it actually says right there.
A section element represents
a generic section of a document or
an application, thanks Code [LAUGH].
So that's pretty cool.
You could even just make
this an h1 altogether.
>> Brian Holt: We can do that,
let's do that.
Each one class,
we're gonna call it the main-title or
main-brand, let's go with main-brand.
And whatever you want to
call your fictitious paper,
it doesn't have to be The News Times.
I kinda of based this
on the New York times,
that's why I came up with
News Times [LAUGH] but up to you.
Okay, so now I have the News Times.
I come over here and I have this now very,
very nice looking whoever,
right here, The News Times.
This is exactly what I wanted to do.
>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna come over
here and I'm gonna go to my style.css.
I'm gonna change this to main-brand, and
I'm gonna make this much larger,
font-size.
And when writing CSS,
it is a ton of guess and check, right?
So I'm just gonna say,
what happens if this is 50 pixels big?
Refresh the page.
Eh, maybe a bit bigger,
let's do 60 pixels.
Cool.
>> [SOUND]
>> Brian Holt: Bless you.
>> Brian Holt: So I have that, and
now I'm gonna come back over here.
I was like, okay, I want this to be
centered, so I'm gonna say text-align:
center, and I'm gonna say font-weight:
normal, cuz I don't want it to be bold.
And then I'm gonna do font-family and
cursive, sounds nice.
>> Brian Holt: So now,
if I come over here and
refresh, that's kind of a weird looking
News Times, but sure, it's close enough.
[LAUGH] What did I actually do?
I actually used some
specific font on here,
if you wanna see what I actually used.
Snell Roundhand, you should have guessed
that, I'm very disappointed in all of you.
[LAUGH]
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Brian Holt: Yep, this is all of your
faults [LAUGH].
No, there's a thing on Mac called Fontbook
that you can just kinda browse through and
see what's actually
stored on your computer.
So here's Brush Script MT,
that's what that looks like.
This is not typically what you would do,
this is more for fun stuff.
Because these are things
that'll be on Macs, and
they won't be on other things, which is
obviously an unacceptable tradeoff if you
were working on something
like Netflix.com.
But nonetheless,
>> Brian Holt: All right, we will do this.
Just for fun, there's a thing
called Google Fonts, click on this.
And a ton, a ton, a ton of fonts, right?
I want something that's gonna be cursive.
Here you go.
We actually just want handwriting.
>> Brian Holt: So there's this,
this looks kind of nice, right?
The Dancing Script.
Or how about here?
Great vibes, that looks perfect right?
So we click on Great Vibes,
you can see what the font looks like.
Then down here at the bottom somewhere,
where is it?
I haven't used this one.
Select this font, okay, and
then you click on that and
then you get this link tag right here.
You just copy and paste this,
this little thing right here.
>> Brian Holt: You come
into your index.html and
you just paste it above your CSS.
So this is gonna bring in
a CSS file from Google, and
it's gonna bring this Great Vibes.
This is okay, because now this is going to
download that font onto every person that
visits your website.
Which is pretty cool, right?
>> Brian Holt: So I'm gonna then copy and
paste this font-family right here,
down here at the bottom, and we're gonna
put that into my CSS where I wanna use it.
>> Brian Holt: So instead of cursive here,
I'm gonna have font-family: 'Great Vibes',
cursive;.
What does this mean?
It means that it's gonna try for
Great Vibes.
If it doesn't find that, it's gonna say
cool, just put on cursive of some sort,
which just means you're gonna get this
weird one that we have on there already.
>> Brian Holt: So
it's gonna look like that.
But now, if I refresh the page,
it's gonna wait for a second and
then, I need to save first.
Now if I refresh the page,
now I'm gonna get that instead.
>> Brian Holt: That's pretty cool, right?
And that will work in
every modern browser.
I wanna tell you why this is possibly
why you wouldn't wanna do this.
This adds a lot of page wage, right?
Cuz you're gonna download an entire font,
that's a lot of stuff, especially for
just the title of something.
You probably just wanna make
that an image instead, right?
So that's how you would
bring another font,
that's not something you always wanna do.
If you going to bring another font you
are probably wanna use it a lot, right?
Does that make sense?
The other thing is now Google has a little
bit of tracking in your website, right?
Cuz now there, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: I just gonna ask, is the
browser smart enough to only get the font
once, or does it follow every page and
reload every time?
>> Brian Holt: No, it caches it,
pretty smartly, no.
That's a good question is how
often is it downloading it?
It should cache it, and keep it for
let's look you can actually see.
So I'm gonna come in here there's in my
dev tools there's a thing called network
monitor over here.
So if I refresh this again,
you can see this font family thing.
And you can see how long the cash control,
it says never get rid of this.
So it's always going to keep it until your
browser just decides to throw it away.
So that's a long time.
[LAUGH] Cuz your browser
will keep quite a bit.
>> Brian Holt: So that's a good question.
But what I was gonna say before is
now Google does have a little bit
of tracking on your webpage, right?
Every time that someone comes to your
website they're gonna download the font,
and Google keeps track of that.
So it's all tradeoffs.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, but
it's worth it, again, it is cool.
>> Brian Holt: Things to think about.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
now we have this News Times thing.
I want it to be a little
bit more spacious, right?
Cuz if we're looking at this, there's
a decent amount of space right at the top.
So what am I gonna do?
I'm gonna put a little bit
of margin on top and bottom.
So I'm gonna say margin maybe 15 pixels,
that's actually less.
I want it to may be 30 pixels,
50 pixels, and let's actually do.
We'll set this as margin top and
margin bottom,
cuz we don't actually wanna one on
the side we just another top and bottom.
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
pretty good, maybe about 60.
>> Brian Holt: There we go.
Now, it looks a little bit better.
Now, we were talking about,
yeah, go ahead.
>> Speaker 3: Isn't it easier to use the
flex stuff for this, just do it center?
>> Brian Holt: Particularly for text, text
is quite easy to do just without flex.
>> Speaker 3: Okay.
>> Brian Holt: So
you could definitely do this with
flex as well, that would work.
So were talking about
using combined things.
Remember, we did like border: 3px solid
pink Margin has one of these as well.
So have, notice that margin-top and
margin-bottom are the same.
I can actually do margin: 60px 0;
like that and get rid of this bottom too.
And what that means is top and
bottom 60, left and right 0.
Now, you ask me like how do I know that?
I've just done this enough times that
I can remember it off the top my head.
There's also if you wanted
to do different things for
like top, bottom, left,
right you can also do
margin: 60px 0 60px 0,
and this would be the same as this and
this.
It's north, east, south, west,
just like that's how I remember it anyway.
There's also one that you
can do it with three, and
I can never remember what
the order of the three is.
So I never use it, of consequence
is I never used a three version.
And then, the other one,
if you just do one margin: 60px,
that would be 60px on every side.
And padding works the same way,
just so you know.
>> Brian Holt: But I show you that
because you will see this a lot.
So if you see just with two,
it's North South is the first one,
East West is the second one.
Cool, feel good about that.
So we got that.
Something that I will do just when I'm
trying to figure out where stuff is being
laid out.
I'll inspect element and
I'll just throw a border on it so
I can tell like,
where is this actually sitting.
Cuz right now you can't really
tell where it is, right?
But if I just throw in a quick border and
say, border: 1px solid black,
I can see that is actually the space
that it's taking up, it's just helpful.
Now, when I refresh the page till it's
gone, because every time you refresh
the page it drops all the stuff
that you've just written to it.
So cool, good stuff.
Coming back here.
Okay, so
we're gonna tackle this next piece first.
I'm gonna have some sort of section
that's gonna have all this HTML,
CSS in it, and
I have three subsections in it.
And I notice that I can still have a left
one, and the right one the same, and
it's just the middle one
that's gonna be any different.
So come back with index.html,
I'm gonna do a section,
I'm gonna call it,
>> Brian Holt: I don't know, row, maybe?
>> Brian Holt: So we talked
a little bit about Emmet yesterday.
I'm so used to doing this,
I'm just always do it.
So I could use section class = roh,
whatever and write it up by hand.
But if you are using VS Code or
for using Emmet which you can find
EMMET.io this will show you how to
install it and everything else,
if you're using like sublime or
something like that.
But if I do section.row,
like I actually put the real CSS selector
right there, and I just hit tab.
It just auto completes it out for me.
So it makes it really fast to write.
Does makes sense?
>> Brian Holt: You could do the same thing
if I did pound row as you might imagine
that's the CSS selector for
having an ID of row.
So you can go really fast with this.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now I have a row,
and I'm gonna have kind of two different
sections in it, or
three different, rather.
I'm gonna have, and
I'm gonna call these articles because
these are kinda article looking, right?
So we're gonna go with article.
>> Brian Holt: And
I could just in there as well, article.,
we'll call this like story,
like a new story, something like that.
And these one are gonna be
quarter stories, right?
And this one's going to be a half story,
because it takes up a quarter of the row,
the middle one takes up half of the row.
So I'm gonna call this quarter as well.
These ones have a title, you could put
this as a h1, you could put it as a h2,
you could make a case for
either one of them.
This is the h1 of the article,
but it's the h2 of the page.
I would personally
probably call this an h1.
I tend to use a lot of h1s, but there
are people that would disagree with me.
So that is definitely your judgement call.
So I'm gonna call this story-title.
>> Brian Holt: And what do I call?
I don't know,
would just say student learn CSS, okay?
Then Benita has well,
two paragraphs of text, so
I'm gonna do story Text.
Now, inside of them,
I wanna put this Lorem Ipsum text, right?
Code will actually generate Lorem Ipsum
text for you, which is quite nice.
So, I wanna say that I put that
angle bracket there to say,
put this inside of there,
that's what the angle bracket means.
And I'm gonna say Lorem maybe 40 words,
so lorem40.
And if I hit Tab,
then I just get this paragraph of
Lorem Ipsum text which is pretty nice.
And then, I actually need two of them.
So I can actually come in here and
say hey, I actually need two of these,
times two.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, then you can
actually see the preview here.
It shows you what you're actually gonna
auto complete out if you're curious.
So now if I tab here I get two of those.
>> Brian Holt: Then I come back over here,
oops this one.
Yep, looks pretty good.
>> Brian Holt: Questions so far?
>> Brian Holt: Now,
if I look like I'm going really fast, and
it's kinda hard to keep up with this, I've
been doing this a really long time, right?
This has literally been my day job for
a decade.
So, you can feel okay if you're
not going quite the speed.
>> Brian Holt: I have done this so
many times, I used to work on
a news website, literally.
So, [LAUGH] this is stuff that I've
all done before a bunch of times.
So please don't feel bad if you're
going a little bit slower than I am.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
So I'm actually gonna do the whole
HTML for the row first, and
then I'm gonna do the CSS for it.
Cuz I think that would be the easiest way
to kinda get all the layouts correct.
So the next article I'm gonna have here,
it's gonna be another article.
>> Brian Holt: It's gonna
be another story, and
it's gonna be a half this time, right?
Cuz it's gonna take up half the page.
Inside of that, I'm gonna have
another h1 with story-title.
And this one is that dogs are adorable.
>> Brian Holt: Are adorable, okay?
This one has an image tag.
So the source was, if you remember
correctly, http://placecorgi.com,
actually I think this has to be s, https.
>> Brian Holt: / I think I did 500 whoops,
/500/300.
This is gonna give me a 500
by 300 image of a corgi,
which is everything that
I've always wanted.
And I'm gonna put here a picture
of an adorable corgi dog.
>> Brian Holt: There's a big temptation
inside of alt txt to say picture of,
right?
But it's always a picture, right?
It's inside of an image tag,
the screen reader knows it's an image.
It's redundant to put
picture of something,
just say what's actually in the picture,
just pro tip for you.
Okay, then underneath that it's
gonna need one text paragraph,
so I'm gonna put story-text.
And inside of that, Lorem 40 or
something like that.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, I refresh here, and
it looks like that link is not working.
Why are you not working?
>> Brian Holt: What did I do?
Let's look at here.
Inspect element, nope,
you do have to do HTTP.
Okay, sorry.
>> Brian Holt: There we go.
Okay so this is not secure, it's http:,
I messed that up
>> Brian Holt: So make sure you get that.
We need one more article and for
the sake of time we're just gonna say
it's literally the same as the first one.
So let's just put that down here as well.
And this will be student learns HTML.
>> Brian Holt: So coming back over here.
>> Brian Holt: We now have our kind
of three stories for the top, right?